# Getting started

**cifuzz** commands will interactively guide you through the needed
options and show next steps. You can find a complete list of the available
commands with all supported options and parameters by calling `cifuzz command
--help` or
[here](https://github.com/CodeIntelligenceTesting/cifuzz/wiki/cifuzz).

1. To initialize your project with cifuzz just execute `cifuzz init` in the root
directory of your project. This will create a file named `cifuzz.yaml`
containing the needed configuration and print out any necessary steps to setup
your project.

2. The next step is to create a fuzz test. Execute `cifuzz create` and follow
the instructions given by the command. This will create a stub for your fuzz
test, lets say it is called `my_fuzz_test_1.cpp` and tell you how to integrate
it into your project. You will find more detailed information in our
[Tutorial](How-To-Write-A-Fuzz-Test.md).

3. Edit `my_fuzz_test_1.cpp` so it actually calls the function you want to test
with the input generated by the fuzzer. To learn more about writing fuzz tests
you can take a look at our [Tutorial](How-To-Write-A-Fuzz-Test.md) or one
of the [example projects](../examples).

4. Start the fuzzing by executing `cifuzz run my_fuzz_test_1`.
**cifuzz** now tries to build the fuzz test and starts a fuzzing run.

## Generate coverage report

Once you executed a fuzz test, you can generate a coverage report which shows
the line by line coverage of the fuzzed code:

cifuzz coverage my_fuzz_test_1

See [here](Coverage-ide-integrations.md) for instructions on how to
generate and visualize coverage reports right from your IDE.

## Regression testing

**Important:** In general there are two ways to run your fuzz test:

1. An actual fuzzing run by calling: `cifuzz run my_fuzz_test_1`.  The fuzzer
will rapidly generate new inputs and feed them into your fuzz test. Any input
that covers new parts of the fuzzed project will be added to the generated
corpus. cifuzz will run until a crash occurs and report detailed information
about the finding.

2. As a regression test, by invoking it through your IDE/editor or by directly
executing the replayer binary (see
[here](How-To-Write-A-Fuzz-Test.md#regression-test--replayer) on how to
build that binary).  This will use the replayer to apply existing input data
from the seed corpus, which has to be stored in the directory
`<fuzz-test-name>_inputs` beside your fuzz test. Note that this directory has to
be created manually. In case a crash was found, the directory will be created
and the crashing input is added to this directory automatically.  The fuzz test
will stop immediately after applying all inputs or earlier if a regression
occurs.


## Sandboxing

On Linux, **cifuzz** runs the fuzz tests in a sandbox by default, to avoid the
fuzz test accidentally harming the system, for example by deleting files or
killing processes. It uses
[Minijail](https://google.github.io/minijail/minijail0.1.html) for that.

If you experience problems when running fuzz tests via **cifuzz** and you don't
expect your fuzz tests to do any harm to the system (or you're already running
**cifuzz** in a container), you might want to disable the sandbox via the
`--use-sandbox=false` flag or the [`use-sandbox: false` config file
setting](docs/Configuration.md#use-sandbox).

## Intro to cifuzz (live stream)

Check out [@jochil](https://github.com/jochil)'s live session for a walkthrough of how to get started with cifuzz. The event is freely accessible on YouTube and Linkedin. Click [here](https://www.code-intelligence.com/webinar/uncovering-hidden-bugs-and-vulnerabilities) for more info.